We will look at very briefly how
the valuation of a company is
carried out and we will introduce
the concept of valuation methods.
Before we start, I want you
to keep in mind, if there is
any doubt, that valuation of companies
is not a science.
I would say it is art.
What do I mean by this?
Well, there really is no single
method or mathematical formula
that allows us to reach a value
and that this value is undisputed,
whether the target value
of the company.
No to.
A review is really an opinion.
This is an opinion that each
party has.
In an operation, usually, since
a purchase-sale, capital
expansion, etc. operation
is involved, there are different
parties involved.
For we have, for example, the
owners or partners, we have
the managers, we have the potential
investors or buyers,
whether they are private
investors or funds, etc.
In addition, analysts or, well,
the advisors of the manie often
participate.
The parties do use or apply
one or more methods of
valuation.
Each comes to its own assessment.
Owners, for example, use one or
more methods, those they consider
appropriate, and determine
that their company is worth 300
million.
And investors do the same and say
they don't consider the company
worth more than 200 million.
Well, we already have a framework of reference,
and from there you will come
to an agreement or not.
What we will do now is, let'
s identify what are the main
valuation methods, the most accepted
or the most well-known.
We can really say that we
have three different
perspectives from which we
can come to or estimate the
value of a company.
And it is convenient to use several
perspectives in a complementary
way, because it can help us, well,
to have a greater perspective,
being redundant, and not falling
into inconsistencies.
Let us see them.
The first is the value of the assets.
We can value a company based
on the value of its assets.
How will we get to the value of
the assets?
There are different formulas.
We can do this, for example,
from what books say, what accounting
says, which would be the
accounting value.
We go to the balance sheet and see
how much is the net accounting value,
for example, that we deduct the
value of liabilities or debts
from the value of the asset.
Another concept is the adjusted
accounting value.
Adjusted to what?
Adjusted to market value.
Imagine you have an asset that is
accounted for at purchase price.
We compared a property five years ago
for 300,000 euros and in the market
now is worth 600,000.
Well, then this common sense that we
should adjust the accounting value.
What I want you to understand about
the value of this perspective, from
this first perspective, of valuing
through the value of assets,
is that it is a limited perspective.
Why is it?
Because it doesn't take into account how
much these assets will generate in the future.
Basically, when you buy a business,
what you are buying is a series
of future cash flows.
However, if the only thing
we value is the value of
assets today, we are not
losing all that.
The second is the market.
In this case, what we will do is
draw conclusions about how other
companies are being evaluated.
This is a reference.
We analyze the value of other
companies, draw conclusions
and from there we
value ours.
It is done through the multiple.
The multiple ones that
they do is to relate
the value of a company
to some of the key
indicators, the most
important indicators,
such as sales, EBITDA,
net profit, etc.
So you look at other companies
and say, well, the companies
in my sector are valued 7.
Well, and that is a reference
framework, a reference to
value yours.
Because you say, if my EBITDA is
one million euros, my company, applied
multiple, is worth 7 million.
Here we have to make a distinction, we
usually make it between, when we
look at co-opted companies, in which
the information is very transparent,
and in addition it is that the only
thing that we compare with the corresponding
indicators, and we calculate
the multiple.
In the case of non-cotized
companies, imagine that we want
to value a pharmacy, what we
do is, we will apply the multiple,
but we will apply it from transactions
or operations that have
already been carried out.
For example, let's put it in
place, pharmacies are selling
to a multiplier of annual
sales by 1.5, between 1.5 and
2.
Well, because that is the multiple
I will use as a reference to
evaluate my pharmacy if I want
to sell it.
And last, the last of the prospects
is the discount of cash
flows.
It is the most complicated one, we'
ll learn to do it, but it's the most orthodox one.
What you help us, regardless
of what happens in the market,
is to calculate or estimate
the value of our company
based on the future cash
flows it will generate.
You already understand how the
discount of cash flows works, as we
will apply it to the valuation of
companies.
We will project cash flows,
we who know what is going to
happen, and we will discount
it at the cost of capital.
We will see it in more detail.